
--------------Postgresql DB Configuration--------------


brew update


Install Postgresql

brew install postgresql@14




To start postgresql@14 now and restart at login:

  brew services start postgresql@14




To stop the PostgreSQL server, run the following command:

brew services stop postgresql@14





To connect to the PostgreSQL server, run the following command:

psql postgres





Check Postgresql server is running or not

1. Check the PostgreSQL status using Homebrew:
2. Open the Terminal application on your Mac and run the following command:


brew services list




OR



2. Check the PostgreSQL status using pg_ctl:
3. Open the Terminal application on your Mac and run the following command:


pg_ctl status






To connect to the PostgreSQL server on your Mac, you can use the psql command-line tool which is installed with PostgreSQL. Here are the steps to connect to the PostgreSQL server using psql:
1. Open the Terminal application on your Mac.
2. Type the following command to connect to the PostgreSQL server:


psql -U <username> -h <hostname> -d <database>

psql -U postgres -h localhost -d microservice

3. Press Enter. You will be prompted to enter your password for the PostgreSQL user you specified in the command.
4. Once you have entered your password, you will be connected to the PostgreSQL server and can start executing SQL commands.


Alternatively, you can also connect to the PostgreSQL server using a graphical user interface tool such as pgAdmin.
To connect using pgAdmin, you will need to enter the server details and login credentials in the "Create Server" dialog box.
Once connected, you can manage your databases and run SQL queries using the pgAdmin GUI.






Yes, you can install pgAdmin using Homebrew on a Mac by following these steps:
1. Open the Terminal application on your Mac.


2. Update Homebrew by running the following command:
sql


brew update



3. Install pgAdmin using the following command:


brew install --cask pgadmin4


4. Once the installation is complete, you can launch pgAdmin by either clicking on the pgAdmin icon in your Applications folder or by running the following command in the Terminal:
python



open /Applications/pgAdmin\ 4.app
5. If this is the first time you are running pgAdmin, you will be prompted to set up a new server. You will need to provide the server name, host, port, and your PostgreSQL login credentials.








psql -U postgres -h localhost -c "\du"

Error: psql: error: connection to server at "localhost" (::1), port 5432 failed: FATAL:  role "postgres" does not exist



psql -U postgres -h localhost -c "CREATE ROLE postgres WITH LOGIN SUPERUSER PASSWORD ‘root’”





psql -U postgres -h localhost -d microservice



CREATE ROLE postgres WITH LOGIN SUPERUSER PASSWORD ‘root’;


netstat -an | grep 5432




sudo lsof -n -i -P | grep 5432






For the LISTEN, ESTABLISHED and CLOSED ports:
sudo lsof -n -i -P | grep TCP


For the LISTEN ports only:
sudo lsof -n -i -P | grep LISTEN


For a specific LISTEN port (e.g. port 80):
sudo lsof -n -i -P | grep ‘:5432 (LISTEN)'
